# Manual for the Semantic Extractor Evaluation (SEE) Software #

## 1. Introduction ##

The software named in the title of this manual is a part of a bachelor thesis developed for Fernuni Hagen germany ([www.fernuni-hagen.de](www.fernuni-hagen.de)). The software was written in Java.

### 1.1 Goals ###

### 1.2 Requirements ###

#### 1.2.1 Goldstandard ####

#### 1.2.2 The extractors ####

At the moment SEE supports 3 extractors:
* [MetaMap]
* [cTakes]
* [QuickUMLS]

To add more extrators to test you simply have to extend the extractors factory class and override 2/3 methods to tell the parser where to find the concepts in the result file generated by the extraction process.
[...]

To use the previously mentioned extractors please install them in this folders in the same directory as the SEE software:
|-- {SEE directory}
|-- extractors
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|-- metamap
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|-- ctakes
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;|-- quickumls



## 2 Using the SEE ##

### 2.1 Reading a gold standard ###

### 2.2 Starting a test run ###

#### 2.2.1 The test run pipeline ####

#### 2.2.2 Starting individual tasks of the pipeline ####

It is also possible to execute individual tasks of the pipeline described in 2.2.1(??).




## QuickUMLS ##

1. Download and follow the instructions on ...

###cTakes###

#####XMI creating from console using the standard pipeline#####

bin/runClinicalPipeline.sh  -i input --xmiOut output  --user massibrero  --pass Slkdhnrda70! -l /home/massi/projects/resources/extractors/ctakes/apache-ctakes-4.0.0/resources/org/apache/ctakes/dictionary/lookup/fast/ncbi+go.xml

#####Customizing ctakes with own ontologies#####

1. You need a UMLS installation consisting of RFF files.
2. Create custom dictionary with your ontology. use cTakes Dictionary Creator for that.
see here for details; https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/CTAKES/Dictionary+Creator+GUI
3. Customize an annotator (in /desc/ctakes-dictionary-lookup-fast or /desc/ctakes-dictionary-lookup-fast). Save an custom descriptor.
4. Customize a clinical pipeline descriptor like /home/massi/projects/resources/extractors/ctakes/apache-ctakes-4.0.0/desc/ctakes-clinical-pipeline/desc/analysis_engine/AggregatePlaintextUMLSProcessor.xml -> insert your custom annotator.
5. reduce pipeline steps to remove any not wanted analysis from yout output (and maybe speeding up the process...?)
6. start the annotation run with bin/runctakesCPE.sh

Extremely important: Add the following type definition to the most primitive descriptor (or your custom annotator)
<typeSystemDescription>
	<imports>
        <import name="org.apache.ctakes.typesystem.types.TypeSystem"/>
	</imports>
</typeSystemDescription>





